README.md, before:

<!-- <HEADER> // IGNORE IT -->


# Better-datepicker
A PC Datepicker with only 9KB

![](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/b39d1e12ba779319ff9bab0f56ba7e41f108d898/68747470733a2f2f696d672e736869656c64732e696f2f6769746875622f6c6963656e73652f6a756d6f646164612f76756558696e2e737667)
![code-test](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/workflows/code-test/badge.svg)
![](https://www.travis-ci.org/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker.svg?branch=master)
![](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/js-monkey/better-datepicker/master.svg)
![](http://img.badgesize.io/https://unpkg.com/better-datepicker/dist/betterDatePicker.es5.js?compression=gzip)
[![install size](https://packagephobia.com/badge?p=better-datepicker)](https://packagephobia.com/result?p=better-datepicker)

## Doc
https://js-monkey.github.io/better-datepicker/

## Demo

<img width="480px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jumodada/img-store/main/better-datepciker-demo.png"/>

## Installing

Using npm:

```bash
$ npm i better-datepicker
```

Using yarn:

```bash
$ yarn add better-datepicker
```

## Usage

es6
```js
import  {createDatePicker} from 'better-datepicker'
import 'better-datepicker/dist/index.css'
```
CommonJS

```js
const {createDatePicker} = require('better-datepicker').default
require('better-datepicker/dist/index.css')
```


## Example

```html
<input type="text" id="input">
```

```js
  const input = document.querySelector('#input')
  createDatePicker(input,{
    placement: 'bottom',
    type: 'date',
    zIndex: 2000,
    format: 'yyyy/MM/dd'
  })
```

you can also 

```html
  <div id="wrapper">
     <span>Including children, find the first inputElement</span>
     <input type="text">
  </div>
  <script >
    const input = document.querySelector('#wrapper')
    createDatePicker(input,{
      placement: 'bottom',
      type: 'date',
      zIndex: 2000,
      format: 'yyyy/MM/dd'
    })
  </script>
```

todo: support virtual dom

# Options Validator

If the format is illegal, it will use default value

## Options

| Options | Description | Type | Accepted Values | Default |
|---------|------------ |---------- |-------------  |-------- |
| type | Type of datepicker | string | date/date-range/month/month-range/year/year-range/week | date |
| format | To set the date format | string | - | yyyy/MM/dd |
| placement | Placement of datepicker | string | top/bottom/right/left | bottom |
| disabledDate | Specifies the date that cannot be selected | function | - | - |
| offset | Distance between Picker and inputElement | number | - | 12 |
| insertTo | Name of the node inserted | string | body/parent | body |
| binding | Bind the value of the inputElement | boolean | - | true |
| themeColor  |     Theme color(selected、hover、range-start、range-end), like *#2ECC71*     |   string     |   -    | -
| rangeBgColor  |     The backgroundColor that element is in range ,It's usually lighter than the themeColor     |   string     |   -   | -
| tdColor  |     Td text color   |   string     |   -   | -
| thColor  |     Th text color   |   string     |   -   | -


## Default Options

global config

```js
  import {defaultOptions} from "better-datepicker"
  defaultOptions({
    placement: 'bottom',
    type: 'date',
    zIndex: 2000,
    format: 'yyyy/MM/dd'
  })
```

## Theme

you can use **defaultOptions**


```js
  import {defaultOptions} from "better-datepicker"
  defaultOptions({
    themeColor: '#1890ff',
    rangeBgColor: '#e6f7ff',
    tdColor: '#5f5f5f',
    thColor: '#5f5f5f'
  })
```

or 

only changes theme of the current instance

```js
     const input = document.querySelector('#wrapper')
     const instance = createDatePicker(input,{
         themeColor: '#1890ff',
         rangeBgColor: '#e6f7ff',
         tdColor: '#5f5f5f',
         thColor: '#5f5f5f'
     })
```

##  Locale

global config

```js
  import {locale} from "better-datepicker"
  import zhCn from 'better-datepicker/dist/locale_es/zh-cn'    // es
  //require('better-datepicker/dist/locale_umd/zh-cn') // cjs
  locale(zhCn)
```


| Locale/Language   | Abbreviation/Link | 
| ----------------- | -------------------------------- | 
| Afghanistan          |    [af](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/af.ts)     | 
| Brazil               |    [br](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/br.ts)  |  
| English              |    [en](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/en.ts)    | 
| Australia             |    [en-au](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/en-au.ts)   |
| Canada             |    [en-au](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/en-ca.ts)   |
| England             |    [en-gb](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/en-gb.ts)   |
| Ireland             |    [en-ie](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/en-ie.ts)   |
| Spain              |  [es](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/es.ts)   |  
| Finland             |   [fi](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/fi.ts)  | 
| Angola              |   [fo](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/fo.ts)   |  
| Faroe Islands              |    [fr](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/fr.ts)    |  
| Croatia               |    [hr](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/hr.ts)    |   
| Haiti              |      [ht](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/ht.ts)   | 
| Italy  |     [it](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/it.ts)   |  
| Japan  |     [ja](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/ja.ts)   | 
| Korea(South)  |     [ko](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/ko.ts)   | 
| Kuwait  |     [ku](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/ku.ts)   | 
| Lebanon  |     [lb](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/lb.ts)   | 
| Laos  |     [lo](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/lo.ts)   | 
| Ukraine  |     [uk](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/uk.ts)   | 
| Uzbekistan  |     [uz](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/uz.ts)   | 
| Chinese |     [zh](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/zh.ts)  | 
| Simplified Chinese  |     [zh-cn](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/zh-cn.ts)   | 
| Hong Kong China  |    [zh-hk](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/zh-hk.ts)   | 
| Taiwan China |    [zh-tw](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/zh-tw.ts)   | 

or configure your own region

```
  import {locale} from "better-datepicker"
  const CubaLocale =  {
    name: 'Cuba',
    weekStart: 6,  //Saturday is set as the first day of the week
    months: ["کانونی دووەم", "شوبات", "ئازار", "نیسان", "ئایار", "حوزەیران", "تەمموز", "ئاب", "ئەیلوول", "تشرینی یەكەم", "تشرینی دووەم", "كانونی یەکەم"],
    weekdays: ["ی", "د", "س", "چ", "پ", "ه", "ش"], //short for week
    weekFormat: 'yyyy-ww'
  }
  locale(CubaLocale)
```

## Instance methods

| name | Description | params |
|---------|------------ |------------ |
| destroyed | destroyed the datepicker,clear InputElement value| -
| onChange | called callback when date has changed |(callback)
| update | Update configuration, remove old datepicker | (options)
| getCurrentDate | get current date | -
| open | open the datepicker | -
| close | close the datepicker | -
| clear | clear the date | -


## API 

```js
  import {destroy} from "better-datepicker"

  const picker1 = createDatePicker('#input1')

  const picker1 = createDatePickerc('#input2')
  destroy([picker1,picker2]) // destroyed picker1 and picker 2
  destroy() //destroyed all 
```

| name | Description | params |
|---------|------------ |------------ |
| destroyed | destroyed the datepicker,clear InputElement value| -
| onChange | called callback when date has changed |(callback)
| update | Update configuration, remove old datepicker | (options)
| getCurrentDate | get current date | -
| open | open the datepicker | -
| close | close the datepicker | -
| clear | clear the date | -




## TODO LIST

| versions | Description|
|---------|------------ |
| 0.5.0 | support unlinkPanels、zIndex、readonly、default-value、className、style、size .... |
| 0.7.0 | support extends plugins |
| 0.9.0 | support time picker |

## Browser support

todo


## License

[MIT](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

feat:  support classes and style

README.md, after:

<!-- <HEADER> // IGNORE IT -->


# Better-datepicker
A PC Datepicker with only 9KB

![](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/b39d1e12ba779319ff9bab0f56ba7e41f108d898/68747470733a2f2f696d672e736869656c64732e696f2f6769746875622f6c6963656e73652f6a756d6f646164612f76756558696e2e737667)
![code-test](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/workflows/code-test/badge.svg)
![](https://www.travis-ci.org/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker.svg?branch=master)
![](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/js-monkey/better-datepicker/master.svg)
![](http://img.badgesize.io/https://unpkg.com/better-datepicker/dist/betterDatePicker.es5.js?compression=gzip)
[![install size](https://packagephobia.com/badge?p=better-datepicker)](https://packagephobia.com/result?p=better-datepicker)

## Doc
https://js-monkey.github.io/better-datepicker/

## Demo

<img width="480px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jumodada/img-store/main/better-datepciker-demo.png"/>

## Installing

Using npm:

```bash
$ npm i better-datepicker
```

Using yarn:

```bash
$ yarn add better-datepicker
```

## Usage

es6
```js
import  {createDatePicker} from 'better-datepicker'
import 'better-datepicker/dist/index.css'
```
CommonJS

```js
const {createDatePicker} = require('better-datepicker').default
require('better-datepicker/dist/index.css')
```


## Example

```html
<input type="text" id="input">
```

```js
  const input = document.querySelector('#input')
  createDatePicker(input,{
    placement: 'bottom',
    type: 'date',
    zIndex: 2000,
    format: 'yyyy/MM/dd'
  })
```

you can also 

```html
  <div id="wrapper">
     <span>Including children, find the first inputElement</span>
     <input type="text">
  </div>
  <script >
    const input = document.querySelector('#wrapper')
    createDatePicker(input,{
      placement: 'bottom',
      type: 'date',
      zIndex: 2000,
      format: 'yyyy/MM/dd'
    })
  </script>
```

todo: support virtual dom

# Options Validator

If the format is illegal, it will use default value

## Options

| Options | Description | Type | Accepted Values | Default |
|---------|------------ |---------- |-------------  |-------- |
| type | Type of datepicker | string | date/date-range/month/month-range/year/year-range/week | date |
| format | To set the date format | string | - | yyyy/MM/dd |
| classes | To set the picker wrapper classes(**It will have a logo prefix: better-datepicker**) | string[] | - | - |
| zIndex   |      z-index of Picker    |   number     |   -     | 2000
| style | To set the picker wrapper style(**zIndex Priority is lower than above**) | Object  | - | - |
| placement | Placement of datepicker | string | top/bottom/right/left | bottom |
| disabledDate | Specifies the date that cannot be selected | function | - | - |
| offset | Distance between Picker and inputElement | number | - | 12 |
| insertTo | Name of the node inserted | string | body/parent | body |
| binding | Bind the value of the inputElement | boolean | - | true |
| themeColor  |     Theme color(selected、hover、range-start、range-end), like *#2ECC71*     |   string     |   -    | -
| rangeBgColor  |     The backgroundColor that element is in range ,It's usually lighter than the themeColor     |   string     |   -   | -
| tdColor  |     Td text color   |   string     |   -   | -
| thColor  |     Th text color   |   string     |   -   | -

## Default Options

global config

```js
  import {defaultOptions} from "better-datepicker"
  defaultOptions({
    placement: 'bottom',
    type: 'date',
    zIndex: 2000,
    format: 'yyyy/MM/dd'
  })
```

## Theme

you can use **defaultOptions**


```js
  import {defaultOptions} from "better-datepicker"
  defaultOptions({
    themeColor: '#1890ff',
    rangeBgColor: '#e6f7ff',
    tdColor: '#5f5f5f',
    thColor: '#5f5f5f'
  })
```

or 

only changes theme of the current instance

```js
     const input = document.querySelector('#wrapper')
     const instance = createDatePicker(input,{
         themeColor: '#1890ff',
         rangeBgColor: '#e6f7ff',
         tdColor: '#5f5f5f',
         thColor: '#5f5f5f'
     })
```

##  Locale

global config

```js
  import {locale} from "better-datepicker"
  import zhCn from 'better-datepicker/dist/locale_es/zh-cn'    // es
  //require('better-datepicker/dist/locale_umd/zh-cn') // cjs
  locale(zhCn)
```


| Locale/Language   | Abbreviation/Link | 
| ----------------- | -------------------------------- | 
| Afghanistan          |    [af](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/af.ts)     | 
| Brazil               |    [br](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/br.ts)  |  
| English              |    [en](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/en.ts)    | 
| Australia             |    [en-au](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/en-au.ts)   |
| Canada             |    [en-au](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/en-ca.ts)   |
| England             |    [en-gb](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/en-gb.ts)   |
| Ireland             |    [en-ie](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/en-ie.ts)   |
| Spain              |  [es](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/es.ts)   |  
| Finland             |   [fi](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/fi.ts)  | 
| Angola              |   [fo](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/fo.ts)   |  
| Faroe Islands              |    [fr](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/fr.ts)    |  
| Croatia               |    [hr](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/hr.ts)    |   
| Haiti              |      [ht](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/ht.ts)   | 
| Italy  |     [it](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/it.ts)   |  
| Japan  |     [ja](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/ja.ts)   | 
| Korea(South)  |     [ko](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/ko.ts)   | 
| Kuwait  |     [ku](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/ku.ts)   | 
| Lebanon  |     [lb](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/lb.ts)   | 
| Laos  |     [lo](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/lo.ts)   | 
| Ukraine  |     [uk](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/uk.ts)   | 
| Uzbekistan  |     [uz](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/uz.ts)   | 
| Chinese |     [zh](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/zh.ts)  | 
| Simplified Chinese  |     [zh-cn](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/zh-cn.ts)   | 
| Hong Kong China  |    [zh-hk](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/zh-hk.ts)   | 
| Taiwan China |    [zh-tw](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/locale/zh-tw.ts)   | 

or configure your own region

```
  import {locale} from "better-datepicker"
  const CubaLocale =  {
    name: 'Cuba',
    weekStart: 6,  //Saturday is set as the first day of the week
    months: ["کانونی دووەم", "شوبات", "ئازار", "نیسان", "ئایار", "حوزەیران", "تەمموز", "ئاب", "ئەیلوول", "تشرینی یەكەم", "تشرینی دووەم", "كانونی یەکەم"],
    weekdays: ["ی", "د", "س", "چ", "پ", "ه", "ش"], //short for week
    weekFormat: 'yyyy-ww'
  }
  locale(CubaLocale)
```

## Instance methods

| name | Description | params |
|---------|------------ |------------ |
| destroyed | destroyed the datepicker,clear InputElement value| -
| onChange | called callback when date has changed |(callback)
| update | Update configuration, remove old datepicker | (options)
| getCurrentDate | get current date | -
| open | open the datepicker | -
| close | close the datepicker | -
| clear | clear the date | -


## API 

```js
  import {destroy} from "better-datepicker"

  const picker1 = createDatePicker('#input1')

  const picker1 = createDatePickerc('#input2')
  destroy([picker1,picker2]) // destroyed picker1 and picker 2
  destroy() //destroyed all 
```

| name | Description | params |
|---------|------------ |------------ |
| destroyed | destroyed the datepicker,clear InputElement value| -
| onChange | called callback when date has changed |(callback)
| update | Update configuration, remove old datepicker | (options)
| getCurrentDate | get current date | -
| open | open the datepicker | -
| close | close the datepicker | -
| clear | clear the date | -




## TODO LIST

| versions | Description|
|---------|------------ |
| 0.5.0 | support unlinkPanels、zIndex、readonly、default-value、className、style、size .... |
| 0.7.0 | support extends plugins |
| 0.9.0 | support time picker |

## Browser support

todo


## License

[MIT](https://github.com/Js-Monkey/better-datepicker/blob/master/LICENSE)
